It was a good song,
you know, like I got warm up songs and
all that stuff and then it's like, oh, I
reckon that made me feel happy when I
was training. So, I reckon that's could
be my my music for my top set. Once
again, we're on a bit of a budget on
time today. So, it's a little bit of a
quicker session than normal, but it's
okay. Not too quick that it's rushed.
I'm just going to do a little bit of a
different warm-up set today. So, my
heavy sessions have consisted of
stiletto squats is my warm-up set. Last
week, I got up to 210 kg stiletto squat
for a double and you know, so it's not
as if I'm going backwards, but this time
and I was doing rep work. So, before
that was 2005. I mean, the week before
that and every session was kind of like
pushing that forward. So, I decided
instead of doing the reps, I'm just
going to do another single, a top
single. I still want to progress from
last week, but it's been really nice way
to warm up, oddly enough, for a heavy
single low bar.
So, normally if I was to max out on a
heavy single low bar, you don't want to
fatigue yourself. You just do your low
bar squats and warm up to your top set
and save as much energy as you can.
But since I came back from my injury,
have been taking a little bit more time
with my warmup. And my injury was a torn
quadricep. And so my rehabilitation was
direct quadricep work. So that's why I
do this stiletto squat as my warmup
because this is of the free weight squat
patterns in my opinion the single best
quad buildup. So of course there's
machine exercises and all those things,
but of the barbell variations, we got
front squat, low bar, all of these
different things. Stiletto and high bar.
Stiletto squat is the variation that
puts you in the best position to hit
quadriceps. Now, what I've noticed with
this rehab protocol is that those
extensive warm-ups on my quadriceps have
put me in a really nice position to
attack a good low bar top set. Let me
have a look here at that 200. What was
that? 195. Little bit quicker with these
warm-ups actually.
That was lovely.
You know, it feels different underneath
the bar. I'm sure you guys know what I
mean.
Sometimes you record yourself and it
feels hard and then you look back at the
recording, it's like, "Oh, that was not
as hard. That did not look as hard as it
felt." And that's what I prefer to rely
on because how you feel is a lie. So, I
prefer to be a little bit more objective
and just look at myself
from an outside perspective and say,
"Was that easy?" I look at it and I'm
like, "Yeah, it was easy. Thanks." This
is a top set. Now, to be honest with
you, like all that easy talk, all that
stuff. This is heavy for a high bust
stto squat. This is heavy for me.
Actually, I've never done this before.
Last week was a PB, 210 kg for a double,
you know, not because it's the best I've
ever done, but technically I just
haven't really pushed these exercises
before. So, whenever it's a it's always
a PB when it's a new exercise, right?
Okay. Um, I'm I'm digging the music
today.
It's putting me in the right frame of
mind.
[Music]
All right, this is heavy. Let's focus.
Okay, now that was good one. Do you know
what I mean? That was a good one. All
right, 220 top single. You know, call it
a top single, but it's really warm up
variation because now comes the real
work.
And I'm going to rewarm up. And this is
where I continue with my topic of
conversation of warm-ups where a lot of
people talk about warm-ups being a waste
of energy. You know, excessive warm-ups.
No one really says, no one that knows
anything says that warm-ups are a
complete waste of time. But the
discussion is how much warm-ups do you
actually need? And I'm a fan of slow
warm-ups. But I'm also 43 years old.
I've been loading my body with heavy
weights for 20 years.
So my body
kind of just doesn't want to come in on
a cold day because it is winter here in
Sydney, Australia. On a cold day and
start getting under barbells and start
loading the plates. I prefer to spend
time warming up and I perform better
that way. So now that was my top set
220. I've been training for an hour.
That's my warmup. How's that? 1 hour.
Well, 50 minutes.
50 minutes of warmup. Is that a waste of
energy? Like, would you think warming up
for 50 minutes is a waste of energy?
Well, I'm here to tell you, for me, it's
not because all I did was one top set
that was submaximal. The idea of a
warm-up is to stimulate, not annihilate.
And it's not just about warming up.
So, you can warm up very easily by going
for a jog, but it's not specific to the
task ahead. So, you can't just go for a
jog and then all of a sudden go for a
top set. So, it's not just about being
warm. It's about getting your body ready
for what's to come. And when you got to
lift heavy,
you need to be prepared the way that
you're used to being prepared. For me,
that is slow process
for some people. Some people, especially
when they're younger, they don't
experience the same thing as me. They
can come in and they just feel good and
they can get under a bar and just start
pumping it. And here's the answer for
that person. That's what you should do.
If that's what makes you feel good and
strong and ready for your top set, then
then that's what you should do. But for
me, these long warm ups have actually
gotten longer because of the rehab. And
it's teaching me that maybe my body
prefers this even more. Now, this is how
I do my sets. Now, I'm going to go
bigger jumps. So, I'll probably go red,
red, red. Ah, different clips today cuz
the the goal of today is 280 kg. You
remember my last top single was 270.
That was the end boss. Last week I beat
the end boss. Now I'm up to the new
level. Why is 270 the M boss? Because
that's the weight that injured my quote.
So that's the mental barrier. We got
through that last week. We beat the M
boss. So now onwards and upwards. So now
it's 280 kg. This is the new level on my
journey back to 300. That's the next
boss is 300. So 280. You know, I could
do 300 in 3 weeks. 280, 290, 300. But
I'll see how I feel. I'll see how this
looks. So this could be hard. And then I
look back and it's like, oh, maybe I
don't deserve to go 290 next week. But
maybe I do.
But I know based on last week's 270 that
280 is logical today.
All right. So now my body is warm,
but my nervous system is engaged as
well. Right. So So right now I'm going
to be cruising through the warmup.
Cruising through the next sets leading
up to it. Oh, look who it is. We got
company.
[Laughter]
She asleep.
>> Hi, Billy. I miss you Billy. Hi.
>> Let's go.
Come on.
Let's [__] go. Let's get this. Let's
go.
[__] yeah. That scared the [__] out of
me.
>> Yes, sir.
>> Oh, you know
>> the set before it [__] popped.
>> Did you? I
>> Yeah. Yeah. It looked great, but the pop
is deceiving. I don't know if it was the
knee sleeve. Thank you, Habibi. I don't
know if it was the knee sleeve or the
belt or the something, but when I tore
my quad the first rep something popped,
didn't feel it. And then the next rep it
tore. So I was like, so turned on some
music, so I didn't hear any popping.
Out of sight, out of mind.
>> Out of sight, out of mind. Uh, let me
see.
>> Um, how did it feel? Uh, actually, you
know, the right setup. So, so walking in
with my head right, all of that carrying
on actually was was lovely for my head
space. Yeah. And we got the depth as
well.
>> Nice boy.
>> We got the depth. I think that I
unrackcked it uneven. I always do.
>> Well, I thought you had the death
wobbles as you unra.
>> Yeah, it did because it because it's
uneven. And then and then um felt
comfort depth.
>> Oh, nice. Yeah, it's a good boy.
>> It's a little bit little bit scary, but
anyway, that's um 9:19.
So, we got time to have a coffee. Very
good.
>> I'm gonna have a coffee with Auntie Den.
>> Enjoy.
>> All right. Anyhow, so that's my session
and I'm out. Thanks for joining.